It's not the best, it's not the most popular...but
I'm not sure there's a regular series on Nintendo's
roster quite as charming as Mario and Luigi.
Sure, it's only been around for about a decade,
but in that time, it's grown into something
pretty special.
I mean, it's funny.
And not, like, video game funny.
It's genuinely, laugh-out-loud funny.
It's a series that lets you in on the joke.
It's a series that embraces creativity, in
a less and less creative industry.
And...it's a series that might be even better
on the Nintendo 3DS.
Dream Team is only the fourth game in the
Mario and Luigi series, but of course...it's
hardly a new idea.
The series may be a newcomer by Nintendo standards,
but it traces its roots all the way back to
1996...and one of the best 16-bit games ever
made.
When you played Super Mario RPG, you knew
it was something great.
And that legendary blueprint serves as the
foundation for the Mario and Luigi games.
Only the structure on top it?
That gets a little wacky.
One of the defining elements of the Mario
and Luigi series is that...each game has its
own creative gimmick.
So it always starts with Mario RPG, right?
But then, the brothers might be, partners
in time or...swallowed by Bowser.
And this time?
Well, Luigi likes to sleep.
Like, a lot.
So Mario's gonna have to save the day, right?
As usual?
Wrong.
Turns out Luigi's REM cycles are way more
powerful than a Starman.
Dream Team is built around a pretty typical
Nintendo convention—the idea of two separate
but related worlds.
In this case, one is a dream world.
The citizens of Pi'illo Island have been trapped
inside these nightmare stones and cast away
in the dream world.
Only problem is, they're also the only ones
who can access the dream world, thanks to
their abnormally strong sleep patterns.
No one else can open the gate.
Then again, no one sleeps harder than Luigi.
So that one idea sets up everything in Dream
Team.
Its premise, its hook...but it also sets up
this great characterization of Luigi.
And that's what Dream Team does best.
It gives these two characters...character,
and a brotherly dynamic.
They call for each other, they strategize
in fake Italian...
They freaking hug, you guys.
You know, there's just something incredibly
endearing about Dream Team...and even relatable.
Mario is always the guy, but this time, he
steps aside.
And he seems to do so happily.
I mean, you may control Mario, but...this
is really a game about Luigi.
And how sometimes, heroes can come in the
most unlikely forms imaginable.
So obviously, Dream Team's personality and
incredible writing are highlights, but the
gameplay's just as good.
Dream Team takes Nintendo hybrid platformer/RPG
design to a whole new level.
So this time, it's not just turn-based battles
and 3D over worlds.
The dream worlds are in 2D, and they're actually
the most creative levels in the game.
Dream Team just throws cool ideas at you,
one after another.
Like reusing the old Mario 64 title screen
for something really clever.
Turn-based RPGs aren't for everyone.
But this is a turn-based RPG for everyone.
Its a genre that can often be convoluted and
daunting, but this one's intuitive and welcoming.
Not to mention thoroughly creative.
And you know, it gives these legendary characters
something even some of their most legendary
games didn't...a personality.
For that and more, Mario and Luigi continues
to be a dream.